---
title: CMake infrastructure
author: Thomas Helfer
date: 18/12/2021
lang: en-EN
link-citations: true
colorlinks: true
figPrefixTemplate: "$$i$$"
tblPrefixTemplate: "$$i$$"
secPrefixTemplate: "$$i$$"
eqnPrefixTemplate: "($$i$$)"
---

This document gives an overview of the [`CMake`](https://cmake.org)
infrastructure of the `MFrontGallery` and `MFrontMaterials` projects.

This infrastructure is fully contained in the `cmake/modules` directory,
the file `cmake/modules/mfm.cmake` being the main entry point.

Section @sec:mfm:cmake:main_functions describes the main `cmake`
functions provided by this infrastructure from the point of view of the
maintainer and developper of a material knowledge management project. It
mostly convers:

- functions used to compile `MFront` files related to material
  properties, behaviours and models.
- functions related to documentation and website generation.

Section @sec:mfm:cmake:cmake_modules describes the contents of the
`cmake/modules` directory.

# Main functions {#sec:mfm:cmake:main_functions}

## The `mfront_properties_library` function

The `mfront_behaviours_library` function adds shared libraries to the
project related to `MFront`' behaviours. The number of added shared
libraries depends on the number of (material properties) interfaces
selected when the project is configured (see the [`install` page for
details](install.html`)).

### Usage

The following example shows how to create libraries associated with a
material called `VanadiumAlloy` from a single `MFront` source file named
`VanadiumAlloy_YoungModulus_SRMA.mfront`:

~~~{.cmake}
mfront_properties_library(VanadiumAlloy
  VanadiumAlloy_YoungModulus_SRMA)
~~~

Note that the `.mfront` suffix has been omitted in this declaration.

Internally, the `mfront_properties_library` function forward is
arguments to the `parse_mfront_library_sources` function and use its
results to add the shared libraries properly. See Section
@sec:mfm:cmake:parse_mfront_library_sources for the available options.

The output generated by this function during the `cmake` configuration
process is similar to the following:

~~~~{.bash}
-- Treating interface cyrano
-- Adding library : VanadiumAlloyMaterialProperties-cyrano (/home/th202608/codes/MFrontGallery/master/src/build/materials/VanadiumAlloy/properties/cyrano/src/VanadiumAlloy_YoungModulus_SRMA-mfront.cxx)
-- Treating interface castem
-- Adding library : VanadiumAlloyMaterialProperties-castem (/home/th202608/codes/MFrontGallery/master/src/build/materials/VanadiumAlloy/properties/castem/src/VanadiumAlloy_YoungModulus_SRMA-mfront.cxx)
....
~~~~

which lists the shared libraries that will be compiled and the sources
that will be generated by `MFront`. One may notice that each shared
library is compiled in its own directory.

Internally, the `mfront_properties_library` relies on the `mfront-query`
to get the list generated sources and handle dependencies to other
`MFront` files and so on.

Regarding dependencies to other `MFront` files, the current directory
`${CMAKE_SOURCE_DIR}/materials/${mat}/properties` is automatically added
to the `MFront` search paths, where:

- `${CMAKE_SOURCE_DIR}` denotes the top level directory of the project
- `${mat}` is the name of the material passed as first argument to the
  `mfront_properties_library`.

Other search paths can be added by using any of the options
`SEARCH_PATH` or `SEARCH_PATHS`, as described in Section
@sec:mfm:cmake:parse_mfront_library_sources.

## The `mfront_behaviours_library` function

The `mfront_behaviours_library` function adds shared libraries to the
project related to `MFront`' behaviours. The number of added shared
libraries depends on the number of (behaviour) interfaces selected when
the project is configured (see the [`install` page for
details](install.html`)).

### Usage

A typical usage of the `mfront_behaviours_library` is the following:

~~~{.cmake}
mfront_behaviours_library(Concrete
  ConcreteBurger_EDF_CIWAP_2021
  ConcreteBurger_EDF_CIWAP_2021_v2)
~~~

which declares a set of shared libraries associated with the `Concrete`
material. Those shared libraries are generated using two `MFront` files
named respectively `ConcreteBurger_EDF_CIWAP_2021.mfront` and
`ConcreteBurger_EDF_CIWAP_2021_v2.mfront` (See Section
@sec:mfm:cmake:mfront_behaviours_library:sources for details).

Note that the `.mfront` suffix has been omitted in this declaration.

~~~~{.bash}
-- ConcreteBurger_EDF_CIWAP_2021 has been discarded for interface calculix (behaviours with external state variable other  than the temperature are not supported)
-- ConcreteBurger_EDF_CIWAP_2021_v2 has been discarded for interface calculix (behaviours with external state variable other  than the temperature are not supported)
-- No sources selected for library CONCRETECALCULIXBEHAVIOURS for interface calculix
-- ConcreteBurger_EDF_CIWAP_2021 has been discarded for interface ansys (behaviours with external state variable other  than the temperature are not supported)
-- ConcreteBurger_EDF_CIWAP_2021_v2 has been discarded for interface ansys (behaviours with external state variable other  than the temperature are not supported)
-- No sources selected for library CONCRETEANSYSBEHAVIOURS for interface ansys
-- Adding library : CONCRETEABAQUSBEHAVIOURS (/home/th202608/codes/MFrontGallery/master/src/build/materials/Concrete/behaviours/abaqus/src/abaqusConcreteBurger_EDF_CIWAP_2021.cxx;/home/th202608/codes/MFrontGallery/master/src/build/materials/Concrete/behaviours/abaqus/src/ConcreteBurger_EDF_CIWAP_2021.cxx;/home/th202608/codes/MFrontGallery/master/src/build/materials/Concrete/behaviours/abaqus/src/abaqusConcreteBurger_EDF_CIWAP_2021_v2.cxx;/home/th202608/codes/MFrontGallery/master/src/build/materials/Concrete/behaviours/abaqus/src/ConcreteBurger_EDF_CIWAP_2021_v2.cxx)
-- Adding library : ConcreteBehaviours-cyrano (/home/th202608/codes/MFrontGallery/master/src/build/materials/Concrete/behaviours/cyrano/src/cyranoConcreteBurger_EDF_CIWAP_2021.cxx;/home/th202608/codes/MFrontGallery/master/src/build/materials/Concrete/behaviours/cyrano/src/ConcreteBurger_EDF_CIWAP_2021.cxx;/home/th202608/codes/MFrontGallery/master/src/build/materials/Concrete/behaviours/cyrano/src/cyranoConcreteBurger_EDF_CIWAP_2021_v2.cxx;/home/th202608/codes/MFrontGallery/master/src/build/materials/Concrete/behaviours/cyrano/src/ConcreteBurger_EDF_CIWAP_2021_v2.cxx)
-- ConcreteBurger_EDF_CIWAP_2021 has been discarded for interface epx (small strain behaviours are not supported)
-- ConcreteBurger_EDF_CIWAP_2021_v2 has been discarded for interface epx (small strain behaviours are not supported)
-- No sources selected for library ConcreteBehaviours-epx for interface epx
-- ConcreteBurger_EDF_CIWAP_2021 has been discarded for interface dianafea (behaviours with external state variable other  than the temperature are not supported)
-- ConcreteBurger_EDF_CIWAP_2021_v2 has been discarded for interface dianafea (behaviours with external state variable other  than the temperature are not supported)
-- No sources selected for library ConcreteDianaFEABehaviours for interface dianafea
-- Adding library : ConcreteBehaviours-aster (/home/th202608/codes/MFrontGallery/master/src/build/materials/Concrete/behaviours/aster/src/asterConcreteBurger_EDF_CIWAP_2021.cxx;/home/th202608/codes/MFrontGallery/master/src/build/materials/Concrete/behaviours/aster/src/ConcreteBurger_EDF_CIWAP_2021.cxx;/home/th202608/codes/MFrontGallery/master/src/build/materials/Concrete/behaviours/aster/src/asterConcreteBurger_EDF_CIWAP_2021_v2.cxx;/home/th202608/codes/MFrontGallery/master/src/build/materials/Concrete/behaviours/aster/src/ConcreteBurger_EDF_CIWAP_2021_v2.cxx)
-- Adding library : ConcreteBehaviours (/home/th202608/codes/MFrontGallery/master/src/build/materials/Concrete/behaviours/castem/src/umatConcreteBurger_EDF_CIWAP_2021.cxx;/home/th202608/codes/MFrontGallery/master/src/build/materials/Concrete/behaviours/castem/src/ConcreteBurger_EDF_CIWAP_2021.cxx;/home/th202608/codes/MFrontGallery/master/src/build/materials/Concrete/behaviours/castem/src/umatConcreteBurger_EDF_CIWAP_2021_v2.cxx;/home/th202608/codes/MFrontGallery/master/src/build/materials/Concrete/behaviours/castem/src/ConcreteBurger_EDF_CIWAP_2021_v2.cxx)
....
~~~~

which lists the shared libraries that will be compiled and the sources
that will be generated by `MFront`. One may notice that each shared
library is compiled in its own directory.

One may also notice that the behaviours considered are not compatible
with some of the selected behaviour interfaces and are thus discarded:

- Those behaviours are not compatible with the `dianafea`, `calculix`
  and `ansys` interfaces because it declares an external state variable
  which is not the temperature and this is not supported by those
  interfaces.
- Those behaviours are not compatible with the `epx` (Europlexus)
  interface because this solver only supports finite strain behaviours.

In this example, no shared libraries for the `Concrete` material will
be generated for the interfaces `dianafea`, `calculix`, `ansys` and
`epx` interfaces since no `MFront` are compatible with them.

Internally, the `mfront_behaviours_library` function forward is
arguments to the `parse_mfront_library_sources` function and use its
results to add the shared libraries properly. See Section
@sec:mfm:cmake:parse_mfront_library_sources for the available options.

### Treatment of the sources {#sec:mfm:cmake:mfront_behaviours_library:sources}

For each shared library to be added, each source returned in the
`mfront_sources` variable by the `parse_mfront_library_sources` is
treated as follows:

- If the file `@source@.mfront` (where `@source@` is the name of the
  considered source) exists in the current source directory, then it is
  treated as an `MFront` source file.
- If the file `@source@.mfront.in` (where `@source@` is the name of the
  considered source) exists in the current source directory, then it is
  automatically configured using `̀CMake`' `configure_file` command and
  the resulting file is treated as an `MFront` source file.
- If neither the `@source@.mfront` nor `@source@.mfront.in` exist in the
  current directory, the file `@source@` is added in the list of sources
  for the treated shared library. This file can be given by its full
  path, and is searched in the current source directory or the the
  current binary directory.

`MFront` source files are treated by:

- the `generate_mfront_doc` function which will generate a web page for
  this source file using the `mfront-doc` utility if the
  `enable-website` option has been choosen at the `CMake` configuration
  stage (see the [`install` page for details](install.html`)).
- 

## The `parse_mfront_library_sources` function {#sec:mfm:cmake:parse_mfront_library_sources}

The `parse_mfront_library_sources` function set the following variables
on output:

- `mfront_sources`: list of sources to be processed. In practice, this
  is the list of arguments which are not specifically treated.
- `mfront_search_paths`: list of search paths, i.e. list of directories
  where `MFront` shall search for auxiliary files (imported files,
  external material properties, external models.).
- `mfront_include_directories`: list of include directories. The include
  directories are added the compiler include directories.
- `mfront_link_libraries`: list of link libraries. Those link
  libraries are meant to be linked to the generated shared libraries.

The `parse_mfront_library_sources` function allows the following
options:

- `SOURCES` (the default): this option introduces new sources for the
  generated libraries. All subsequent arguments are treated as sources,
  up to the next option.
- `LINK_LIBRARY`: this option allows to define one link library by the
  next argument passed to the `parse_mfront_library_sources` function.
- `LINK_LIBRARIES`: all subsequent arguments are treated as link
  libraries, up to the next option.
- `SEARCH_PATH`: the next argument passed to the
  `parse_mfront_library_sources` function is added to the list of search
  paths.
- `SEARCH_PATHS`: all subsequent arguments are treated as `MFront`
  search path, up to the next option.
- `INCLUDE_DIRECTORY`: the next argument passed to the
  `parse_mfront_library_sources` function is added to the list of
  include directories.
- `INCLUDE_DIRECTORIES`: the next argument passed to the
  `parse_mfront_library_sources` function is added to the list of
  include directories.

## Functions related to tests based on `MTest`

### The `add_mtest` function (defined in `behaviours.cmake`)

The `add_mtest` function allows to declare a test on behaviours based on
the `MTest` solver. The `add_mtest` function is used by wrappers such as
`genericmtest` (for tests associated with the `generic` interface) or
`castemmest` (for tests associated with the `Cast3M` interface) and not
used directly (see below).

This function takes two mandatory arguments:

- the name of the interface.
- the name of the library containing the behaviour to be tested.

This function may take optional arguments introduced by the following
keywords:

- `TEST_NAME` (default): this keyword introduces the base name of one or
  several tests. The full test name is created by adding:
  - the configuration (`Release`, `Debug`, etc.) for build systems that
    support multiple configurations in the same build
  - the rounding mode (see below for details).
- `MTEST_FILE`: this keyword introduces one or several base names to
  declare `MTest` scripts (i.e. the name of a file without extension).
  For each base name, the `add_mtest` function proceeds as follows:
  - If a file, with this base name and the extension `.mtest.in` exists,
    the `configure_file` function is called to generate a script file in
    the current directory. This file will be called by `MTest`.
  - Otherwise, a file, with this base name and the extension `.mtest` is
    expected to exist in the current source directory.
- `BEHAVIOUR`: this keyword introduces the name of the behaviour. This
  name used to replace all occurences of `@behaviour@` in the `MTest`
  scripts.
- `LIBRARY`: this keyword introduces the path to the library containing
  the behaviour to be tested. This name used to replace all occurences
  of `@library@` in the `MTest` scripts. By default, this location is
  deduced from the name of the second argument of the function.
- `INTERFACE`: this keyword introduces the name of the interface used to
  generate the library. This name used to replace all occurences of
  `@interface@` in the `MTest` scripts.
- `REFERENCE_FILE`: this keyword introduces the name of the file
  containing the reference results. This name used to replace all
  occurences of `@reference_file@` in the `MTest` scripts.
- `ACCELERATION_ALGORITHM`: this keyword introduces the name of an
  acceleration algorithm (see the `MTest` documentation for a list of
  acceleration algorithms).
- `STIFFNESS_MATRIX_TYPE`: this keyword introduces the type of stiffness
  matrix type to be used for the test (see the `MTest` documentation for
  a list of available stiffness matrix types).
- `MATERIAL_PROPERTIES_LIBRARIES`: this keyword introduces a list of
  libraries whose locations are requested. This keyword is only
  meaningful if an `mtest.in` file is to be used.

Several test names and several `MTest` scripts can be declared through
the `TEST_NAME` and `MTEST_FILE` keywords respectively. The number of
test names must match the number of scripts.

A script is generally run several times with different rounding modes
(see the `MTest` documentation for details).

### Wrappers around the `add_mtest` functions

The `add_mtest` function does not check if the interface used by the
test has been selected and is not able to deduce the name of the library
associated with an interface from the name of a material (`Bentonite`
for instance) or the name of the class of behaviours considered
(`Plasticity` for instance).

`MFrontGallery` thus provides several wrappers, such as: `castemmtest`,
`astermtest`, `europlexusmtest` `abaqusmtest`, `abaqusexplicitmtest`,
`ansysmtest`, `calculixmtest` `dianafeamtest`, `cyranomtest` and
`genericmtest`.

For instance, one can call the `castemmtest` function even if the
`Cast3M` interface for behaviours has not been selected: in this case,
the associated test is just not declared.

#### Example of usage

The following code declares a test based on the `asteriwan.mtest` script
if the `aster` interface has been selected:

~~~~{.cmake}
mfront_behaviours_library(Plasticity
  ${MFRONT_BEHAVIOURS_PLASTICITY_SOURCES})

astermtest(Plasticity asteriwan)
~~~~

## The `pandoc_html` function

The `pandoc_html` function can be used to generate an `html` page from a
markdow file using [`pandoc`](https://pandoc.org). This function takes
the name of a markdown file a argument. All the other options are passed
verbatim to `pandoc`.

The following options are automatically passed to `pandoc`:

- `--mathjax`: This option forces the use of the `MathJax` library to
  display embedded `(La)TeX` formulae.
- `--highlight-style=tango`: This option selects the `tango` style to
  display code snippets.
- `--email-obfuscation=javascript`: This option modifies how emails are
  displayed.
- `--default-image-extension=svg`: This option chooses `SVG` as the
  default image extension.


### HTML template

If a file named `mfm-template.html` is found in the directory `docs/web`
(from the root of the sources of the project), this file is used as a
template for generating the web pages (see pandoc's `--template`
option).

### Bibliography

If a biblatex file named `bibliography.bib` is found in the directory
`docs/web` (from the root of the sources of the project), the generation
of a bibliography is automatically enabled (see pandoc's
`--bibliography` option).

###  Citation Style Language (CSL) file 

If a file named `iso690-numeric-en.csl` is found in the directory
`docs/web` (from the root of the sources of the project), this file is
used to define the reference style used (see pandoc's `--csl` option).

<!--
# The `cmake/modules` directory {#sec:mfm:cmake:cmake_modules}

The `cmake` infrastructure provided by the `MFrontGallery` project is
based on a set of files located in the `cmake/modules` directory.

## Main files

### The `tfel.cmake` file

The `tfel.cmake` file detects the `MFront` installation and e

### Files related to `MFront` interfaces

### Files related to compiler support
-->