docs/web/install.md, before:

---
title: Installation guide
author: Thomas Helfer
date: 18/12/2021
lang: en-EN
link-citations: true
colorlinks: true
figPrefixTemplate: "$$i$$"
tblPrefixTemplate: "$$i$$"
secPrefixTemplate: "$$i$$"
eqnPrefixTemplate: "($$i$$)"
---

After downloading or cloning the sources of the `MFrontGallery` project,
a typical usage of the project is divided in four steps (common to most
`cmake` projects):

- **Configuration**, which allows to select the interfaces to be used.
- **Compilation**, which builds the shared libraries associated with the
  selected interfaces.
- **Unit testing**, which allows to verify that no regression has occured.
- **Installation**, which can deploy the built shared libraries.

# Cloning the `master` branch of the `MFrontGallery` project

The `master` branch of the `MFrontGallery` project can be cloned as
follows:
 
~~~~{.bash}
$ git clone https://github.com/thelfer/MFrontGallery
~~~~

# Configuration

The sources are assumed to be in the `MFrontGallery` directory. While
not strictly required, it is convienient to create a `build` directory
(the example assumes it to be at the same level as the `MFrontGallery`
directory):

~~~~{.bash}
$ mkdir build
$ cd build
~~~~

The configuration step is triggered by calling `cmake`:

~~~~{.bash}
$ cmake  ../MFrontGallery/ [options]
~~~~

The interfaces are selected by a set of `cmake` options prefixed by
`enable` as described in the next paragraph.

## Available options

### Standard `cmake` variables

- `CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE`: This variable specifies the kind of build
  selected. Typical values are 'Release' and 'Debug'.
- `CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX`: specify where the project shall be installed.
- `CMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE`: specify a tool chain file (for
  cross-compilation).

### Variables affecting the compilation of `MFront` files

#### Option passed to domain specific languages

The following variables can be used to define options passed to domain
specific languages:

- `MFM_BUILD_IDENTIFIER`: string variable specifying a build identifier.
  By default, the build identifier exported by `MFront` will be empty.
  Defining this variable is only supported when using a version of
  `TFEL` greater than `4.1`.
- `MFM_TREAT_PARAMETERS_AS_STATIC_VARIABLES`: boolean variable stating
  if the parameters shall be treated as static variables. By default,
  parameters are not defined as static variables by `MFront` allowing
  their modifications at runtime. The way of modifying parameters
  depends on the interface considered. Defining this variable is only
  supported when using a version of `TFEL` greater than `4.1`.
- `MFM_ALLOW_PARAMETERS_INITIALIZATION_FROM_FILE`: boolean variable
  stating if `MFront` shall generate code for reading parameters from an
  external text file located in the current directory at runtime, a
  feature supported by most interfaces. By default, `MFront` does
  generate this code. Defining this variable is only supported when
  using a version of `TFEL` greater than `4.1`.

`MFrontGallery` may use more refined variables to define the options
passed to `MFront`' domain specific languages. The name of those
variables depends on the name of the considered interface and the type
of the material knowledge considered.

Assuming that the `castem` interface as been enabled for behaviours, the
build identifier passed to the domain specific languages of `MFront`'
files compiled with this interface is defined by one of the following
variables:

- `MFM_CASTEM_BEHAVIOURS_BUILD_IDENTIFIER`
- `MFM_CASTEM_BUILD_IDENTIFIER`
- `MFM_BUILD_IDENTIFIER`

The definition of all those variables is optional.

### Interface selection

#### Interface to material properties

- `enable-c`: enable compilation of material properties using the `c`
  interface.
- `enable-c++`: enable compilation of material properties using the
  `C++` interface.
- `enable-excel`: enable compilation of material properties using the
  `excel` interface.
- `enable-fortran`: enable compilation of material properties using the
  `fortran` interface.
- `enable-python`: Enable the generation of `python` modules. Note that
  the `Python_ADDITIONAL_VERSIONS` selects the `python` version to use.
  Only the major and minor version of python shall be passed, not the
  revision version (otherwise the detection fails).
- `enable-java`: enable compilation of material properties using the
  `java` interface.
- `enable-octave`: enable compilation of material properties using the
  `octave` interface.

See also the `enable-castem-material-properties` and
`enable-cyrano-material-properties` options below.

#### Interface to behaviours

- `enable-generic-behaviours`: enable compilation of behaviours using
  the `generic` interface.
- `enable-aster`: enable compilation of behaviours using the `aster`
  interface.
- `enable-diana-fea`: enable compilation of behaviours using the
  `diana-fea` interface.
- `enable-europlexus`: enable compilation of behaviours using the
  `europlexus` interface.
- `enable-abaqus`: enable compilation of behaviours using the
  `abaqus` interface.
- `enable-abaqus-explicit`: enable compilation of behaviours using the
  `abaqus-explicit` interface.
- `enable-ansys`: enable compilation of behaviours using the `ansys`
  interface.
- `enable-calculix`: enable compilation of behaviours using the
  `calculix` interface.
- `enable-zmat`: enable compilation of behaviours using the `zmat`
  interface.

See also the `enable-castem-behaviours` and `enable-cyrano-behaviours`
below.

#### Options related to the `Cast3M` solver

- `enable-castem`: enable the compilation of material properties and
  behaviours using the `castem` interface. This option is equivalent to
  using enabling both options `enable-castem-material-properties` and
  `enable-castem-behaviours`.
- `enable-castem-material-properties`: enable compilation of material
  properties using the `castem` interface.
- `enable-castem-behaviours`: enable compilation of behaviours using the
  `castem` interface.
- `enable-castem-pleiades`: option specifying if the `PLEIADES` version
  of the `Cast3M` finite element solver is used.

#### Options related to the `Cyrano` solver

- `enable-cyrano`: enable the compilation of material properties and
  behaviours using the `cyrano` interface. This option is equivalent to
  using enabling both options `enable-castem-material-properties` and
  `enable-castem-behaviours`.
- `enable-cyrano-material-properties`: enable compilation of material
  properties using the `cyrano` interface.
- `enable-cyrano-behaviours`: enable compilation of behaviours using the
  `cyrano` interface.

### Generation of the website

The `enable-website` option selects if the website of the project shall
be generated. This requires `pandoc` (mandatory) and `pandoc-crossref`
(optional) to be available.

### Additional behaviours

- `enable-fortran-behaviours-wrappers`: This option enables the
  compilation of behaviours based at least partially on the `fortran`
  language.

### Automatic documentation generation using `mfront-doc`

- `enable-mfront-documentation-generation`: this option enable or
  disable the generation of a documentation using `mfront-doc`. This
  option is disabled by default.

### Options related to tests

- `enable-random-tests`:

### Options related to compilation

- `enable-portable-build`:
- `enable-fast-math:
- `enable-sanitize-options`:
- `enable-developer-warnings`:

### Compilers and compile flag selections

The `CC` and `CC` environment variables are used respectively to 

If the boolean variable `USE_EXTERNAL_COMPILER_FLAGS` is set to true
(i.e. to the `ON` value following `cmake` conventions), the `CFLAGS` and
`CXXFLAGS` environment variables are used to define the compile flags
used to compile `C` and `C++` sources respectively.

#### Option specific to `gcc`

- `enable-glibcxx-debug`:

#### Option specific to `clang`

- `enable-libcxx`:



## `TFEL` executables

By default, the configuration step assumes that the various binaries
provided by the `TFEL` project (including `mfront`) can be found in
the current environment.

# Compilation

The selected libraries can be built as follows:

~~~~{.bash}
$ cmake --build . --target all
~~~~

# Unit tests

Unit tests can be executed as follows:

~~~~{.bash}
$ cmake --build . --target check
~~~~

# Installation

The built shared libraries can be installed as follows:

~~~~{.bash}
$ cmake --build . --target install
~~~~

Commit message:

Add support for generic models and material properties

docs/web/install.md, after:

---
title: Installation guide
author: Thomas Helfer
date: 18/12/2021
lang: en-EN
link-citations: true
colorlinks: true
figPrefixTemplate: "$$i$$"
tblPrefixTemplate: "$$i$$"
secPrefixTemplate: "$$i$$"
eqnPrefixTemplate: "($$i$$)"
---

After downloading or cloning the sources of the `MFrontGallery` project,
a typical usage of the project is divided in four steps (common to most
`cmake` projects):

- **Configuration**, which allows to select the interfaces to be used.
- **Compilation**, which builds the shared libraries associated with the
  selected interfaces.
- **Unit testing**, which allows to verify that no regression has occured.
- **Installation**, which can deploy the built shared libraries.

# Cloning the `master` branch of the `MFrontGallery` project

The `master` branch of the `MFrontGallery` project can be cloned as
follows:
 
~~~~{.bash}
$ git clone https://github.com/thelfer/MFrontGallery
~~~~

# Configuration

The sources are assumed to be in the `MFrontGallery` directory. While
not strictly required, it is convienient to create a `build` directory
(the example assumes it to be at the same level as the `MFrontGallery`
directory):

~~~~{.bash}
$ mkdir build
$ cd build
~~~~

The configuration step is triggered by calling `cmake`:

~~~~{.bash}
$ cmake  ../MFrontGallery/ [options]
~~~~

The interfaces are selected by a set of `cmake` options prefixed by
`enable` as described in the next paragraph.

## Available options

### Standard `cmake` variables

- `CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE`: This variable specifies the kind of build
  selected. Typical values are 'Release' and 'Debug'.
- `CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX`: specify where the project shall be installed.
- `CMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE`: specify a tool chain file (for
  cross-compilation).

### Variables affecting the compilation of `MFront` files

#### Option passed to domain specific languages

The following variables can be used to define options passed to domain
specific languages:

- `MFM_BUILD_IDENTIFIER`: string variable specifying a build identifier.
  By default, the build identifier exported by `MFront` will be empty.
  Defining this variable is only supported when using a version of
  `TFEL` greater than `4.1`.
- `MFM_TREAT_PARAMETERS_AS_STATIC_VARIABLES`: boolean variable stating
  if the parameters shall be treated as static variables. By default,
  parameters are not defined as static variables by `MFront` allowing
  their modifications at runtime. The way of modifying parameters
  depends on the interface considered. Defining this variable is only
  supported when using a version of `TFEL` greater than `4.1`.
- `MFM_ALLOW_PARAMETERS_INITIALIZATION_FROM_FILE`: boolean variable
  stating if `MFront` shall generate code for reading parameters from an
  external text file located in the current directory at runtime, a
  feature supported by most interfaces. By default, `MFront` does
  generate this code. Defining this variable is only supported when
  using a version of `TFEL` greater than `4.1`.

`MFrontGallery` may use more refined variables to define the options
passed to `MFront`' domain specific languages. The name of those
variables depends on the name of the considered interface and the type
of the material knowledge considered.

Assuming that the `castem` interface as been enabled for behaviours, the
build identifier passed to the domain specific languages of `MFront`'
files compiled with this interface is defined by one of the following
variables:

- `MFM_CASTEM_BEHAVIOURS_BUILD_IDENTIFIER`
- `MFM_CASTEM_BUILD_IDENTIFIER`
- `MFM_BUILD_IDENTIFIER`

The definition of all those variables is optional.

### Interface selection

#### Interfaces to material properties

- `enable-c`: enable compilation of material properties using the `c`
  interface.
- `enable-c++`: enable compilation of material properties using the
  `C++` interface.
- `enable-excel`: enable compilation of material properties using the
  `excel` interface.
- `enable-fortran`: enable compilation of material properties using the
  `fortran` interface.
- `enable-python`: Enable the generation of `python` modules. Note that
  the `Python_ADDITIONAL_VERSIONS` selects the `python` version to use.
  Only the major and minor version of python shall be passed, not the
  revision version (otherwise the detection fails).
- `enable-java`: enable compilation of material properties using the
  `java` interface.
- `enable-octave`: enable compilation of material properties using the
  `octave` interface.
- `enable-generic-material-properties`: enable compilation of material
  properties using the `generic` interface.

See also the `enable-castem-material-properties` and
`enable-cyrano-material-properties` options below.

#### Interfaces to behaviours

- `enable-generic-behaviours`: enable compilation of behaviours using
  the `generic` interface.
- `enable-aster`: enable compilation of behaviours using the `aster`
  interface.
- `enable-diana-fea`: enable compilation of behaviours using the
  `diana-fea` interface.
- `enable-europlexus`: enable compilation of behaviours using the
  `europlexus` interface.
- `enable-abaqus`: enable compilation of behaviours using the
  `abaqus` interface.
- `enable-abaqus-explicit`: enable compilation of behaviours using the
  `abaqus-explicit` interface.
- `enable-ansys`: enable compilation of behaviours using the `ansys`
  interface.
- `enable-calculix`: enable compilation of behaviours using the
  `calculix` interface.
- `enable-zmat`: enable compilation of behaviours using the `zmat`
  interface.

See also the `enable-castem-behaviours` and `enable-cyrano-behaviours`
below.

#### Interfaces to models

- `enable-generic-models`: enable compilation of models
  using the `generic` interface.

#### Options related to the `Cast3M` solver

- `enable-castem`: enable the compilation of material properties and
  behaviours using the `castem` interface. This option is equivalent to
  using enabling both options `enable-castem-material-properties` and
  `enable-castem-behaviours`.
- `enable-castem-material-properties`: enable compilation of material
  properties using the `castem` interface.
- `enable-castem-behaviours`: enable compilation of behaviours using the
  `castem` interface.
- `enable-castem-pleiades`: option specifying if the `PLEIADES` version
  of the `Cast3M` finite element solver is used.

#### Options related to the `Cyrano` solver

- `enable-cyrano`: enable the compilation of material properties and
  behaviours using the `cyrano` interface. This option is equivalent to
  using enabling both options `enable-castem-material-properties` and
  `enable-castem-behaviours`.
- `enable-cyrano-material-properties`: enable compilation of material
  properties using the `cyrano` interface.
- `enable-cyrano-behaviours`: enable compilation of behaviours using the
  `cyrano` interface.

### Generation of the website

The `enable-website` option selects if the website of the project shall
be generated. This requires `pandoc` (mandatory) and `pandoc-crossref`
(optional) to be available.

### Additional behaviours

- `enable-fortran-behaviours-wrappers`: This option enables the
  compilation of behaviours based at least partially on the `fortran`
  language.

### Automatic documentation generation using `mfront-doc`

- `enable-mfront-documentation-generation`: this option enable or
  disable the generation of a documentation using `mfront-doc`. This
  option is disabled by default.

### Options related to tests

- `enable-random-tests`:

### Options related to compilation

- `enable-portable-build`:
- `enable-fast-math:
- `enable-sanitize-options`:
- `enable-developer-warnings`:

### Compilers and compile flag selections

The `CC` and `CC` environment variables are used respectively to 

If the boolean variable `USE_EXTERNAL_COMPILER_FLAGS` is set to true
(i.e. to the `ON` value following `cmake` conventions), the `CFLAGS` and
`CXXFLAGS` environment variables are used to define the compile flags
used to compile `C` and `C++` sources respectively.

#### Option specific to `gcc`

- `enable-glibcxx-debug`:

#### Option specific to `clang`

- `enable-libcxx`:



## `TFEL` executables

By default, the configuration step assumes that the various binaries
provided by the `TFEL` project (including `mfront`) can be found in
the current environment.

# Compilation

The selected libraries can be built as follows:

~~~~{.bash}
$ cmake --build . --target all
~~~~

# Unit tests

Unit tests can be executed as follows:

~~~~{.bash}
$ cmake --build . --target check
~~~~

# Installation

The built shared libraries can be installed as follows:

~~~~{.bash}
$ cmake --build . --target install
~~~~
