docs/papers/joss/paper.md, before:

---
title: The `MFrontGallery` project
tags:
  - MFront
  - Mechanical solvers
  - Mechanical behaviours
  - Material knowledge management
authors:
  - name: Thomas Helfer
    orcid: 0000-0003-2460-5816
    affiliation: 1
  - name: Maxence Wangermez 
    orcid: 0000-0002-3431-5081
    affiliation: 1
  - name: Eric Simo
    affiliation: 2, 3
  - name: Thomas Nagel
    orcid: 0000-0001-8459-4616
    affiliation: "3, 4"
  - name: Christian B. Silbermann
    affiliation: "3"
  - name: Lorenzo Riparbelli
    affiliation: "5"
affiliations:
  - name: CEA, DES, IRESNE, DEC, Cadarache F-13108 Saint-Paul-Lez-Durance, France
    index: 1
  - name: BGE TECHNOLOGY, Eschenstrasse 55, 31224 Peine, Germany
    index: 2
  - name: Geotechnical Institute, Technische Universität Bergakademie Freiberg, Gustav-Zeuner-Str. 1, 09599 Freiberg, Germany
    index: 3
  - name: Department of Environmental Informatics, Helmholtz Centre for Environmental Research -- UFZ, Permoserstr. 15, 04318 Leipzig, Germany
    index: 4
  - name: University of Florence, Dagri Dept., Florence, Italy.
    index: 5
date: March 2022
numbersections: true
bibliography: bibliography.bib
---

<!--
pandoc -f markdown  --bibliography=bibliography.bib --citeproc -V geometry:a4paper,margin=2cm --highlight-style=tango --citeproc paper.md -o paper.pdf
-->

# Introduction

`MFront` is an open-source code generator focused on material knowledge
[@Helfer2015;@cea_edf_mfront_2022] developed collaboratively by the
French Alternative Energies and Atomic Energy Commission (CEA) and
Électricité de France (EDF). The open-source status of `MFront` has led
to its adoption in a wide range of applications[^mfront:publications]
covering a variety of materials (ceramics, metals, concrete, woods,
etc.) and physical phenomena (viscoplasticity, plasticity, damage,
etc.). It is also part of the `PLEIADES` numerical platform
[@bernaud_pleiades_2024], which is devoted to multi-physics nuclear fuel
simulations and is developed by CEA and its industrial partners EDF and
Framatome.

[^mfront:publications]: For a comprehensive list of publications utilizing
`MFront`, please visit: <https://thelfer.github.io/tfel/web/publications.html>

`MFront` provides so-called interfaces to ensure that material
knowledge is portable and can be used in a wide range of contexts. For
instance, `MFront`-based mechanical behaviours can be compiled for use with
various commercial and academic solvers such as: [`Cast3M`](http://www-cast3m.cea.fr/),
[`code_aster`](https://code-aster.org/),
[`Europlexus`](https://europlexus.jrc.ec.europa.eu/),
[`Abaqus/Standard`](https://www.3ds.com/products/simulia/abaqus/standard),
[`Abaqus/Explicit`](https://www.3ds.com/products/simulia/abaqus/explicit),
[`Ansys`](https://www.ansys.com/),
[`AMITEX_FFTP`](https://amitexfftp.github.io/AMITEX/index.html),
[`CalculiX`](http://www.calculix.de/),
[`ZSet`](http://www.zset-software.com/),
[`DIANA FEA`](https://dianafea.com/).

Additionally, the `generic` interface extends the availability of these
mechanical behaviours to all solvers using the
[`MFrontGenericInterfaceSupport`
projet](https://thelfer.github.io/mgis/web/index.html) (MGIS)
[@helfer_mfrontgenericinterfacesupport_2020], including:
[`OpenGeoSys`](https://www.opengeosys.org/) [@Bilke2019],
[`MFEM-MGIS`](https://thelfer.github.io/mfem-mgis/web/index.html),
`MANTA`,
[`mgis.fenics`](https://thelfer.github.io/mgis/web/mgis_fenics.html),
[`MoFEM`](http://mofem.eng.gla.ac.uk/mofem/html), XPER, etc.

The `MFrontGallery` project addresses the management of
`MFront` implementations including their compilation, unit testing and
deployment.

The [MFrontGallery project](https://github.com/thelfer/MFrontGallery)
has two main, almost orthogonal, objectives:

1. Show how solver developers may provide their
  users a set of ready-to-use (mechanical) behaviours that can be
  parametrized to meet specific needs.
2. Describe how to set up a high-quality material
  knowledge management project based on
  [`MFront`](https://thelfer.github.io/tfel/web/index.html), capable
  of meeting the requirements of safety-critical studies.

While the first objective is common to all (mechanical) solvers, the
originality of the `MFrontGallery` project is to address the second goal
which is discussed in Section
\ref{sec:mfm:introduction:statement_of_need}.

In summary, the project provides:

- A [`CMake`](https://cmake.org) infrastructure that can be replicated
  in (academic or industrial) derived projects, which allows for:
  - compiling `MFront` sources using all supported interfaces.
  - executing unit tests based on `MTest` which generate `XML` result
    files conforming to the `JUnit` standard, compatible with continuous
    integration platforms such as [jenkins](https://www.jenkins.io/).
  - generating documentation associated with the stored implementations.
- A documentation of best practices for handling material knowledge
  implemented with `MFront`, such as use of consistent unit systems,
  bound-aware physical quantities, consistent tangent operators, and
  others.
- A set of high-quality `MFront` implementations. Those implementations
  are not discussed in this paper which is thus focused on the two
  previous points.

This paper aims to describe the `MFrontGallery` project and is organized
as follows:

Section \ref{sec:mfm:introduction:statement_of_need} discusses the
necessity for a new approach to material knowledge management, particularly
in the context of safety-critical studies.

Section \ref{sec:mfm:introduction:cmake_infrastructure} provides an
overview of the `CMake` infrastructure of the project, and details the
process for creating derivative projects using the same `CMake` framework as
the `MFrontGallery`.

# Statement of need : material knowledge management for safety - criticial studies
\label{sec:mfm:introduction:statement_of_need}

## Role of material knowledge in numerical simulations of solids

Numerical simulations of solids are based on the description of the
evolution of the thermodynamic state of materials. In
the context of the `MFrontGallery` project, this thermodynamical state
is represented at each point in space by a set of internal state variables
that evolve over time due to various physical phenomena.

In `MFront`, material knowledge can be categorized as follows:

- **Material properties** are defined as functions of the current
  state of the material such as the Young's modulus or Poisson's ratio.
- **Behaviours** describe how a material evolves and reacts locally due
  to internal gradients. The material reaction is
  associated with fluxes (or forces) thermodynamically conjugated to
  gradients. For instance, Fourier's law relates the heat flux to the
  temperature gradient. Mechanical behaviour in infinitesimal strain
  theory relates the stress and the strain and may describe (visco)elasticity,
  (visco)plasticity, or damage.
- **Point-wise models** describe the evolution of some internal state
  variables without considering gradients (i.e. with the evolution of
  other state variables), such as phase transition, swelling under
  irradiation or shrinkage due to dessication.

## Requirements related to safety-critical studies

\label{sec:mfm:introduction:safety_critical_studies}

The `MFrontGallery` project has been developed to address various
issues related to material knowledge management in safety-critical
studies:

- **Intellectual property**: Material knowledge often embodies
  industrial know-how that must be kept confidential. This includes
  highly valuable mechanical behaviours derived from extensive
  experimental testing in dedicated facilities. `MFrontGallery` supports
  creating private derived projects to protect such valuable knowledge,
  as detailed in Section \ref{sec:mfm:creating_derived_project}.
- **Portability**: safety-critical studies may involve several partners
  which use different solvers for independent assessment and review.
  From a single `MFront` source file, `MFrontGallery` can generate
  shared libraries compatible with all the solvers of interest. Moreover, the
  project uses best practices
  guidelines[^mfm:best_practices]
  to ensure that a given `MFront` implementation can be shared among
  several teams while assuring quality.
- **Maintainability over decades**: Long-term projects require that both
  solvers and material knowledge evolve while ensuring past studies remain
  accessible and reproducible. In the authors'
  experience, having a
  dedicated material knowledge project based on *self-contained*
  implementations, facilitate maintainability as discussed in Section
  \ref{sec:mfm:introduction:implementations}.
- **Progression of the state of the art**: Safety-critical studies must
  reflect current scientific and engineering advancements. Thus,
  material knowledge, numerical methods, and software engineering need
  to evolve while guaranteeing the quality assurance of past, present
  and future simulations.
- **Continuous integration and unit testing**: Each implementation includes unit tests to prevent regression during during the `MFront` development.
- **Documentation**: the project can automatically generate the documentation
  associated with the various implementations. Implementations of material knowledge can be associated to essential
  meta data.

[^mfm:best_practices]: <https://thelfer.github.io/MFrontGallery/web/best-practices.html>

## Implementations and classification
\label{sec:mfm:introduction:implementations}

`MFront` implementations can be classified into two main categories:

- **self-contained implementations** that contain all necessary
  physical information (e.g., model equations and parameters).
- **generic implementations** for which the solver is
  required to provide additional physical information to the material
  treated, e.g. the values of certain parameters. Those "generic"
  implementations are usually provided with solvers as ready-to-use
  behaviours.

Thus, self-contained implementations describe both constitutive
equations **and** material coefficients identified on a well-defined set
of experiments for a particular material, while generic implementations
describe only the constitutive equations.

In practice, the physical
information described by self-contained implementations may be more
complex than a set of material coefficients. For example, the Young's
modulus of a material may be defined by an analytical formula and cannot
thus be reduced to a set of constants. This analytical formula shall be
part of a self-contained mechanical behaviour implementation. Of course,
this analytical formula could be included in the set of constitutive
equations and parametrized to retrieve a certain degree of generality. In our
experience, such a hybrid approach is fragile, less readable and
cumbersome. Moreover, it does not address the main issue of generic
behaviours which is the management of the physical information in a
reliable and robust manner.

In the authors' experience, self-contained behaviours allows to
**decouple the material knowledge management from the development
  (source code) of the solvers of interest** and thus allow a proper
  material knowledge management strategy suitable to meet the
  requirements depicted on Section
  \ref{sec:mfm:introduction:safety_critical_studies}.

# The `CMake` infrastructure
\label{sec:mfm:introduction:cmake_infrastructure}

This section provides an overview of the [`CMake`](https://cmake.org)
infrastructure of the `MFrontGallery` project.

This infrastructure is fully contained in the `cmake/modules` directory,
the file `cmake/modules/mfm.cmake` being the main entry point.

Section \ref{sec:mfm:cmake:main_functions} describes the main `CMake`
functions provided by the project.

Section \ref{sec:mfm:creating_derived_project} shows how to create a
derived project.

## Main functions
\label{sec:mfm:cmake:main_functions}

The [`CMake`](https://cmake.org) infrastructure provides:

- functions used to compile `MFront` files related to material
  properties, behaviours and models.
- functions related to unit testing. Those functions will not be
  described in this paper.
- functions related to documentation and website generation. Those
  functions will not be described in this paper.

The following snipet shows how the `mfront_properties_library`
introduces a set of libraries describing the material properties of
Uranium dioxide:

~~~{.cmake}
mfront_properties_library(UO2
  UO2_YoungModulus_Martin1989
)
~~~~

The `mfront_behaviours_library` and `mfront_models_library` are
available for behaviours and point-wise models respectively.

## Creation of a derived project
\label{sec:mfm:creating_derived_project}

This section describes the process for setting up a new project based on the [`CMake`
infrastructure](cmake-infrastructure.html) of the `MFrontGallery` project.

### Fetching `cmake/modules` directory

To create a material management project derived from `MFrontGallery`,
just copy the contents of the `cmake/modules` directory in your local
directory.

If you intend to use `git` for version control, one easy way is to add
the `MFrontGallery` as a remote ressource and check out the `CMake`
repository from it as follows:

~~~~{.bash}
$ git remote add MFrontGallery https://github.com/thelfer/MFrontGallery
$ git fetch MFrontGallery master
$ git checkout MFrontGallery/master --cmake 
~~~~

Of course, the user may also want to follow another branch rather than
the `master` branch.

### Top-level `CMakeLists.txt` file

The next step consist of creating a top level `CMakeLists.txt` file.
Here is a minimal example:

~~~~{.cmake}
project(NewMaterialManagementProject)
set(PACKAGE new-material-management-project)
cmake_minimum_required(VERSION 3.0.2)

include(cmake/modules/mfm.cmake)

# testing
set(CTEST_CONFIGURATION_TYPE "${JOB_BUILD_CONFIGURATION}")
enable_testing()

# add subdirectories here
add_subdirectory(materials)
~~~~

Now you are ready to create the subdirectory `materials` containing your
`MFront` files.

# Conclusions

The `MFrontGallery` project is dedicated to material knowledge management
in safety-critical studies and is the result of long-standing experience gathered
in the `PLEIADES` project. Key concepts built upon are portability,
maintainability and reproducability over long time periods, continuous integration
and unit testing, documentation and the safeguarding of intellectual property as 
well as attribution. Based on the technical infrastructure
described in this article, it becomes possible to set up derived projects 
in similar contexts where these concepts are considered relevant.

# Acknowledgements

This research was conducted in the framework of the `PLEIADES` project,
which is supported financially by the French Alternative Energies and
Atomic Energy Commission (CEA), Électricité de France (EDF) and
Framatome.

Thomas Nagel acknowledges funding provided by the Federal Ministry for
Education and Research (BMBF) under grant 03G0927B for the DigBen
project and thanks Projektträger Jülich (PtJ) for support.

# References

Commit message:

Takes @mrbuche review into account (https://github.com/openjournals/joss-reviews/issues/7742)

docs/papers/joss/paper.md, after:

---
title: The `MFrontGallery` project
tags:
  - MFront
  - Mechanical solvers
  - Mechanical behaviours
  - Material knowledge management
authors:
  - name: Thomas Helfer
    orcid: 0000-0003-2460-5816
    affiliation: 1
  - name: Maxence Wangermez 
    orcid: 0000-0002-3431-5081
    affiliation: 1
  - name: Eric Simo
    affiliation: 2, 3
  - name: Thomas Nagel
    orcid: 0000-0001-8459-4616
    affiliation: "3, 4"
  - name: Christian B. Silbermann
    affiliation: "3"
  - name: Lorenzo Riparbelli
    affiliation: "5"
affiliations:
  - name: CEA, DES, IRESNE, DEC, Cadarache F-13108 Saint-Paul-Lez-Durance, France
    index: 1
  - name: BGE TECHNOLOGY, Eschenstrasse 55, 31224 Peine, Germany
    index: 2
  - name: Geotechnical Institute, Technische Universität Bergakademie Freiberg, Gustav-Zeuner-Str. 1, 09599 Freiberg, Germany
    index: 3
  - name: Department of Environmental Informatics, Helmholtz Centre for Environmental Research -- UFZ, Permoserstr. 15, 04318 Leipzig, Germany
    index: 4
  - name: University of Florence, Dagri Dept., Florence, Italy.
    index: 5
date: March 2022
numbersections: true
bibliography: bibliography.bib
---

<!--
pandoc -f markdown  --bibliography=bibliography.bib --citeproc -V geometry:a4paper,margin=2cm --highlight-style=tango --citeproc paper.md -o paper.pdf
-->

# Introduction

`MFront` is an open-source code generator focused on material knowledge
[@Helfer2015;@cea_edf_mfront_2022] developed collaboratively by the
French Alternative Energies and Atomic Energy Commission (CEA) and
Électricité de France (EDF). The open-source status of `MFront` has led
to its adoption in a wide range of applications[^mfront:publications]
covering a variety of materials (ceramics, metals, concrete, woods,
etc.) and physical phenomena (viscoplasticity, plasticity, damage,
etc.). It is also part of the `PLEIADES` numerical platform
[@bernaud_pleiades_2024], which is devoted to multi-physics nuclear fuel
simulations and is developed by CEA and its industrial partners EDF and
Framatome.

[^mfront:publications]: For a comprehensive list of publications utilizing
`MFront`, please visit: <https://thelfer.github.io/tfel/web/publications.html>

`MFront` provides so-called interfaces to ensure that material
knowledge is portable and can be used in a wide range of contexts. For
instance, `MFront`-based mechanical behaviours can be compiled for use with
various commercial and academic solvers such as: [`Cast3M`](http://www-cast3m.cea.fr/),
[`code_aster`](https://code-aster.org/),
[`Europlexus`](https://europlexus.jrc.ec.europa.eu/),
[`Abaqus/Standard`](https://www.3ds.com/products/simulia/abaqus/standard),
[`Abaqus/Explicit`](https://www.3ds.com/products/simulia/abaqus/explicit),
[`Ansys`](https://www.ansys.com/),
[`AMITEX_FFTP`](https://amitexfftp.github.io/AMITEX/index.html),
[`CalculiX`](http://www.calculix.de/),
[`ZSet`](http://www.zset-software.com/),
[`DIANA FEA`](https://dianafea.com/).

Additionally, the `generic` interface extends the availability of these
mechanical behaviours to all solvers using the
[`MFrontGenericInterfaceSupport`
projet](https://thelfer.github.io/mgis/web/index.html) (MGIS)
[@helfer_mfrontgenericinterfacesupport_2020], including:
[`OpenGeoSys`](https://www.opengeosys.org/) [@Bilke2019],
[`MFEM-MGIS`](https://thelfer.github.io/mfem-mgis/web/index.html),
`MANTA`,
[`mgis.fenics`](https://thelfer.github.io/mgis/web/mgis_fenics.html),
[`MoFEM`](http://mofem.eng.gla.ac.uk/mofem/html), XPER, etc.

The `MFrontGallery` project addresses the management of
`MFront` implementations including their compilation, unit testing and
deployment.

The [MFrontGallery project](https://github.com/thelfer/MFrontGallery)
has two main, almost orthogonal, objectives:

1. Show how solver developers may provide their
  users a set of ready-to-use (mechanical) behaviours that can be
  parametrized to meet specific needs.
2. Describe how to set up a high-quality material
  knowledge management project based on
  [`MFront`](https://thelfer.github.io/tfel/web/index.html), capable
  of meeting the requirements of safety-critical studies.

While the first objective is common to all (mechanical) solvers, the
originality of the `MFrontGallery` project is to address the second goal
which is discussed in Section
\ref{sec:mfm:introduction:statement_of_need}.

In summary, the project provides:

- A [`CMake`](https://cmake.org) infrastructure that can be replicated
  in (academic or industrial) derived projects, which allows for:
  - compiling `MFront` sources using all supported interfaces.
  - executing unit tests based on `MTest` which generate `XML` result
    files conforming to the `JUnit` standard, compatible with continuous
    integration platforms such as [jenkins](https://www.jenkins.io/).
  - generating documentation associated with the stored implementations.
- A documentation of best practices for handling material knowledge
  implemented with `MFront`, such as use of consistent unit systems,
  bound-aware physical quantities, consistent tangent operators, and
  others.
- A set of high-quality `MFront` implementations. Those implementations
  are not discussed in this paper which is thus focused on the two
  previous points.

This paper aims to describe the `MFrontGallery` project and is organized
as follows:

Section \ref{sec:mfm:introduction:statement_of_need} discusses the
necessity for a new approach to material knowledge management, particularly
in the context of safety-critical studies.

Section \ref{sec:mfm:introduction:cmake_infrastructure} provides an
overview of the `CMake` infrastructure of the project, and details the
process for creating derivative projects using the same `CMake` framework as
the `MFrontGallery`.

# Statement of need : material knowledge management for safety - criticial studies
\label{sec:mfm:introduction:statement_of_need}

## Role of material knowledge in numerical simulations of solids

Numerical simulations of solids are based on the description of the
evolution of the thermodynamic state of materials. In
the context of the `MFrontGallery` project, this thermodynamical state
is represented at each point in space by a set of internal state variables
that evolve over time due to various physical phenomena.

In `MFront`, material knowledge can be categorized as follows:

- **Material properties** are defined as functions of the current
  state of the material such as the Young's modulus or Poisson's ratio.
- **Behaviours** describe how a material evolves and reacts locally due
  to internal gradients. The material reaction is
  associated with fluxes (or forces) thermodynamically conjugated to
  gradients. For instance, Fourier's law relates the heat flux to the
  temperature gradient. Mechanical behaviour in infinitesimal strain
  theory relates the stress and the strain and may describe (visco)elasticity,
  (visco)plasticity, or damage.
- **Point-wise models** describe the evolution of some internal state
  variables without considering gradients (i.e. with the evolution of
  other state variables), such as phase transition, swelling under
  irradiation or shrinkage due to dessication.

## Requirements related to safety-critical studies
\label{sec:mfm:introduction:safety_critical_studies}

The `MFrontGallery` project has been developed to address various
issues related to material knowledge management in safety-critical
studies:

- **Intellectual property**: Material knowledge often embodies
  industrial know-how that must be kept confidential. This includes
  highly valuable mechanical behaviours derived from extensive
  experimental testing in dedicated facilities. `MFrontGallery` supports
  creating private derived projects to protect such valuable knowledge,
  as detailed in Section \ref{sec:mfm:creating_derived_project}.
- **Portability**: safety-critical studies may involve several partners
  which use different solvers for independent assessment and review.
  From a single `MFront` source file, `MFrontGallery` can generate
  shared libraries compatible with all the solvers of interest. Moreover, the
  project uses best practices
  guidelines[^mfm:best_practices]
  to ensure that a given `MFront` implementation can be shared among
  several teams while assuring quality.
- **Maintainability over decades**: Long-term projects require that both
  solvers and material knowledge evolve while ensuring past studies remain
  accessible and reproducible. In the authors'
  experience, having a
  dedicated material knowledge project based on *self-contained*
  implementations, facilitate maintainability as discussed in Section
  \ref{sec:mfm:introduction:implementations}.
- **Progression of the state of the art**: Safety-critical studies must
  reflect current scientific and engineering advancements. Thus,
  material knowledge, numerical methods, and software engineering need
  to evolve while guaranteeing the quality assurance of past, present
  and future simulations.
- **Continuous integration and unit testing**: Each implementation includes unit tests to prevent regression during during the `MFront` development.
- **Documentation**: the project can automatically generate the documentation
  associated with the various implementations. Implementations of material knowledge can be associated to essential
  meta data.

[^mfm:best_practices]: <https://thelfer.github.io/MFrontGallery/web/best-practices.html>

## Implementations and classification
\label{sec:mfm:introduction:implementations}

`MFront` implementations can be classified into two main categories:

- **self-contained implementations** that contain all necessary
  physical information (e.g., model equations and parameters).
- **generic implementations** for which the solver is
  required to provide additional physical information to the material
  treated, e.g. the values of certain parameters. Those "generic"
  implementations are usually provided with solvers as ready-to-use
  behaviours.

Thus, self-contained implementations describe both constitutive
equations **and** material coefficients identified on a well-defined set
of experiments for a particular material, while generic implementations
describe only the constitutive equations.

In practice, the physical
information described by self-contained implementations may be more
complex than a set of material coefficients. For example, the Young's
modulus of a material may be defined by an analytical formula and cannot
thus be reduced to a set of constants. This analytical formula shall be
part of a self-contained mechanical behaviour implementation. Of course,
this analytical formula could be included in the set of constitutive
equations and parametrized to retrieve a certain degree of generality. In our
experience, such a hybrid approach is fragile, less readable and
cumbersome. Moreover, it does not address the main issue of generic
behaviours which is the management of the physical information in a
reliable and robust manner.

In the authors' experience, self-contained behaviours allows to
**decouple the material knowledge management from the development
  (source code) of the solvers of interest** and thus allow a proper
  material knowledge management strategy suitable to meet the
  requirements depicted on Section
  \ref{sec:mfm:introduction:safety_critical_studies}.

# The `CMake` infrastructure
\label{sec:mfm:introduction:cmake_infrastructure}

This section provides an overview of the [`CMake`](https://cmake.org)
infrastructure of the `MFrontGallery` project.

This infrastructure is fully contained in the `cmake/modules` directory,
the file `cmake/modules/mfm.cmake` being the main entry point.

Section \ref{sec:mfm:cmake:main_functions} describes the main `CMake`
functions provided by the project.

Section \ref{sec:mfm:creating_derived_project} shows how to create a
derived project.

## Main functions
\label{sec:mfm:cmake:main_functions}

The [`CMake`](https://cmake.org) infrastructure provides:

- functions used to compile `MFront` files related to material
  properties, behaviours and models.
- functions related to unit testing. Those functions will not be
  described in this paper.
- functions related to documentation and website generation. Those
  functions will not be described in this paper.

The following snipet shows how the `mfront_properties_library`
introduces a set of libraries describing the material properties of
Uranium dioxide:

~~~{.cmake}
mfront_properties_library(UO2
  UO2_YoungModulus_Martin1989
)
~~~~

The `mfront_behaviours_library` and `mfront_models_library` are
available for behaviours and point-wise models respectively.

## Creation of a derived project
\label{sec:mfm:creating_derived_project}

This section describes the process for setting up a new project based on the [`CMake`
infrastructure](cmake-infrastructure.html) of the `MFrontGallery` project.

### Fetching `cmake/modules` directory

To create a material management project derived from `MFrontGallery`,
just copy the contents of the `cmake/modules` directory in your local
directory.

If you intend to use `git` for version control, one easy way is to add
the `MFrontGallery` as a remote ressource and check out the `CMake`
repository from it as follows:

~~~~{.bash}
$ git remote add MFrontGallery https://github.com/thelfer/MFrontGallery
$ git fetch MFrontGallery master
$ git checkout MFrontGallery/master --cmake 
~~~~

Of course, the user may also want to follow another branch rather than
the `master` branch.

### Top-level `CMakeLists.txt` file

The next step consist of creating a top level `CMakeLists.txt` file.
Here is a minimal example:

~~~~{.cmake}
project(NewMaterialManagementProject)
set(PACKAGE new-material-management-project)
cmake_minimum_required(VERSION 3.0.2)

include(cmake/modules/mfm.cmake)

# testing
set(CTEST_CONFIGURATION_TYPE "${JOB_BUILD_CONFIGURATION}")
enable_testing()

# add subdirectories here
add_subdirectory(materials)
~~~~

Now you are ready to create the subdirectory `materials` containing your
`MFront` files.

# Conclusions

The `MFrontGallery` project is dedicated to material knowledge management
in safety-critical studies and is the result of long-standing experience gathered
in the `PLEIADES` project. Key concepts built upon are portability,
maintainability and reproducability over long time periods, continuous integration
and unit testing, documentation and the safeguarding of intellectual property as 
well as attribution. Based on the technical infrastructure
described in this article, it becomes possible to set up derived projects 
in similar contexts where these concepts are considered relevant.

# Acknowledgements

This research was conducted in the framework of the `PLEIADES` project,
which is supported financially by the French Alternative Energies and
Atomic Energy Commission (CEA), Électricité de France (EDF) and
Framatome.

Thomas Nagel acknowledges funding provided by the Federal Ministry for
Education and Research (BMBF) under grant 03G0927B for the DigBen
project and thanks Projektträger Jülich (PtJ) for support.

# State of the field

The project is focused on Quality Assurance issues related to material
knowledge management which is, in the authors' experience, seldom a
major concern in most open-source thermomechanical solvers. Several
libraries providing high quality implementations of constitutive
equations are available, but generally dedicated to one specific solver.
The implementations are generally generic (as opposed to
self-contained). The `MFrontGallery` project thus provide a unique
approach.

# References
